Ben Blum <bblum@andrew.cmu.edu>
15-712

Akamai

==== Praise ====

I like the idea of having the edge servers parse and prefetch HTML pages to
create the illusion that the edge server itself is hosting the website. I'd like
to see an analysis of cases this is good for vs cases where it fails due to
either not prefetching the right thing or prefetching too many things.

Since this is a high-level paper, almost a "survey" of various topics akamai has
worked on each of which could maybe be its own paper, it's not clear what, if
any, evaluation experiments would be relevant. However, the customer benefits
and results section seems to neatly fill this gap -- justifying the niche they
claim to fill without necessarily having anything to compare against.

==== Criticism ====

My major question so far is "How do the content distribution servers actually
know what content to cache to begin with?" If I upload a video to youtube, which
anyone might want to watch from around the world, does it immediately get copied
to an akamai edge server in each corner of the world?

The concrete contribution of this paper is not clear. All I knew going into it
was that it's a writeup of how they serve content, but with no hints as to what
particular tricks and techniques they use to make their system any good. For
example, in section 6.1, they mention conducting races for real-time path
optimisation -- this is such a technique; I'd have preferred to see the paper
present their collection of all such techniques, rather than be structured based
on motivating needs with their solutions as incidental points buried in the
paragraphs.

==== Nitpicks ====

Essentially half the paper is motivation rather than explaining how their system
architecture actually works. Through section 5 they've talked only about what
challenges their architecture helps address, waving their hands over gritty
design details. I see this as pretty frivolous.
