Ben Blum <bblum@andrew.cmu.edu>
15-712

Xen and the Art of Archery

Like the ESX paper, this is also a paper that I read for 15-799. Here is an
adapted/refreshed version of my review from then.

================
==== Praise ====
================

Their main rationale is that full virtualisation - in which the guest kernel
may run unmodified - sacrifices too much in the way of performance in favour of
convenience. Xen, instead, requires "small" modifications to the guest kernel
to make for more efficient interaction between the hypervisor and the guest.

IMO this is a great approach to doing good research: it adds entirely new
techniques to the community's collective repertoire, so future researchers can
pick which ones work best for them (as opposed to, e.g., putting
microoptimisations on top of existing things that nobody will actually care to
duplicate in their own work).

I also appreciate they way they provide guest kernels with views of both "real"
and "virtual" resources, which enables the guest kernels to more appropriately
deal with their performance concerns, instead of "stumbling along blindly".

The paper does a good job talking about the problems/requirements of running
multiple virtualised guests (particularly, in protecting them from each other
and the hypervisor from them). There is good description of what parts of the
guest kernels need to be changed, from a high-level design perspective, and the
description of benchmarking efforts is thorough.

===================
==== Criticism ====
===================

I thought the paper was more detailed/wordy than necessary. For example, the 
introduction and the approach and overview sections each spent a lot of time
explaining all the different types of virtualisation and how Xen compares and 
contrasts with them; the detailed design section repeats much that is said
previously (e.g., they mention the fact that an event-based system substitutes
for hardware interrupts at least three times before they go into the specifics).

Even though the performance numbers presented in the papers compare xen very
favourably with nonvirtualised linux, they do not talk about I/O, and in that
area (at least, so I am told) they take big performance hits.

